h1. Jekyll's First Potion

I created this project for people (and myself) that needed a basic starter template for Jekyll. I've tried to make it as basic as possible while still looking good enough to use out of the box.

A lot of it is based on the HTML5 Starter Pack by Radu Chelariu. You can see more of his start template at "http://www.sickdesigner.com/resources/HTML5-starter-pack/index.html":http://www.sickdesigner.com/resources/HTML5-starter-pack/index.html.

Most Jekyll sites that I've seen implement the following items:

* Index pages with links to posts
* Tags and tag clouds
* Disqus comments
* Google Analytics
* RSS and sitemap.xml
* Redirects from old urls (for users that migrated an old site)

So this starter template uses all of those elements. Most everything can be set in the _config.yml. If something is missing, such as the Google Analytics id or the Disqus id, the site will not generate the associated code.

h2. HTML5, CSS, JQuery

The site is full HTML5 compatible. It uses a CSS reset and a base CSS. I recommend that you only modify ==/css/style.css==. I've put basic CSS on most all of the elements, so you can see what needs to be changed.

The site will use JQuery from Google's servers. 

h2. Categories, Tags and Tag Clouds

The categories and tags are based on a "blog entry of Jekyll hacks":http://recursive-design.com/projects/jekyll-plugins/. 

I use categories on my own site for high-level organization. For instance, I have a section for recipes, a section for blog, etc. I don't really want to mix them up. So I place those items in their own categories.

Tags are free-form keywords that can be used in any post. I put them in the post's YAML front matter. Tag clouds are generated dynamically from the tags.

h2. Disqus

Disqus comments are enabled if you enter a "disqus_id" parameter in ==_config.yml==. They will not work on your local environment, but when the site is publicly accessible, Disqus will correctly generate the comment sections.

h2. Redirects

Since a lot of users are migrating their old site to Jekyll, I wanted a good solution for creating redirect URLs. I came from a Drupal site and Drupal creates a lot of URLs for a single page. So I created a plugin for creating redirect pages, based on the Drupal migration script for Jekyll. I put the logic for creating redirects as part of the site generation process.

If Jekyll finds a "redirects" item in a post and the "redirects" parameter in ==_config.yml== is set to true, Jekyll will create redirect pages. If anyone visits the site by an old URL, they will be redirected to 

h2. License

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.
